Safari Blue Picnic
Safari Blue is a full day excursion on traditional sailing dhows. The trip starts from the fishing village of Fumba, on the southwest corner of the Island, 30 minutes' drive from Stone Town. Fumba is part of the Menai Bay conservation area since 1998. The bay has a number of beautiful uninhabited islands and sandbanks. We board the dhows and set off to explore the bay, later we drop anchor by a sandbank where beginners or less confident swimmers can enjoy the Indian Ocean while enjoying tropical fruits, soft drinks, and sunbathing. The next stop is snorkeling in beautiful corals where you can see different colorful tropical fishes, with the help of life jackets and a guide for beginners or less confident swimmers. On Kwale Island a traditional seafood buffet lunch will be served and it includes grilled fish, slipper lobster, calamari, prawns, French Fries, rice, and vegetable sauces - all served hot from the grill. A visit to the beautiful mangrove lagoon to swim through a mangrove forest (tide-permitting). We will return to main Island by sail if the weather allows.



Dolphin Snorkeling at Mnemba
Mnemba Island is a single small island about 500 meters, opposite Muyuni Beach, northeast of Zanzibar island. It is one of the exclusive marine conservation areas in Tanzania with wide varieties of corals and associate species of tropical colorful fish as well as occasional sightings of larger species such as turtles and dolphins. The island is privately owned but snorkeling around the island is unlimited, while snorkeling, we easily spot groups of humpback dolphins, triggerfish, surgeonfish, butterflyfish, zebrafish, and countless other species of fish and if you are lucky you can spot turtles. After snorkeling, we visit at Muyuni Beach for relaxing and refreshments before returning to the hotel.



Spice Tour & Village Life Insight (5 hours)
We drive to the central part of the Island at Kizimbani, a farming village.
It has a long history of spice production since the Arab colonial. Firstly you will be welcomed by the local mamas (woman) in the village and have spice tea as welcome drinks as per the traditions of people in Zanzibar. You will be given a traditional mate to seat and start learning and practicing the Swahili cooking's. Under the guidance of experienced Zanzibar local woman cook, you will practice cooking a delicious Swahili dish for lunch, with a fusion of Arab, Indian, and African influences and the important role of spices in our daily life.
After cooking class we will guide you to the Spice plantation to experience different spices in nature after using them in the kitchen. Here you will learn about their properties, their origins and their use as medicines. Depending on the season you are visiting, you can find anything from vanilla, cardamom, cinnamon, nutmeg, turmeric, lemon grass, cloves, ginger, coriander, pepper, allspice, chili, curry lives and more! In other session, you will experience how the local Zanzibaris harvest the coconuts by Zanzibaris harvest the coconuts by
climbing the coconut tree. You will learn and practice how to weave Makuti (a coconut leaf roof making) and weaving a basket by coconut leaves. The tour end after eating the lunch together with our host from what you have prepared before.



Sandbank & Prison Island Trip
In this full day trip we depart from one of the Stone Town beaches for Prison Island, locally known as Changuu Island. Feed and play with the Aldabra's giant tortoise and visit the old slave prison ruins. We will set off again with our traditional dhow to Pange Island (Sandbank). On the way we serve light breakfast with ginger spiced tea and juices, homemade bread and tropical fruits. It gives you time to relax on the beach, get a nice tan and enjoy the wonderful clear blue 



Tumbatu Island Cultural Tour (6 hours)
The tour starts at 9:00 am from Mkokoni local dhow harbor and fishing village. We do a short visit of the place before heading to Tumbatu Island, you will visit the local fish & furniture market also the local cargo dhows and fishing boats. It takes 30 minutes to the island by small boat. There we stop at the lagoon to learn the fishing methods used by locals and their fishing traps.
We'll visit different areas to experience the local's daily life, from the harbor to meet with dhow crafters and fishermen repairing the nets to the old baobab trees which used to be a school/classroom. We will proceed to the interesting part of the tour by visiting a witch doctor (spiritual healer) and learn about traditional, spiritual & ritual treatments and herbs.
Visiting Shiraz ruins, Shiraz was the earliest settlers and the local rulers of the Zanzibar Islands and Tumbatu Island before the 12th century. Hot local lunch will be served at the end, includes rice, coconut curry, seafood, and fruits.


Jozani Forest
We will pick you up from your hotel to Jozani Forest, an eclectic bio-diversity, with many strange and wonderful animals residing in it. The forest is a home to the few remaining Red Colobus Monkeys in the world which are the most famous inhabitants of the forest. They play freely throughout the reserve and they can be spotted at close distance. You will also enjoy the fresh air during walking beneath the big red Mahogany and Eucalyptus trees. If you are lucky enough you may see Sunnis (small deer), chameleon or even the famous Zanzibar Fischer's
Turaco bird!! Later you will walk on a mangrove board to see different types of mangroves which are available on the Island. The different variety of marine life can be seen. Many more forest inhabitants are possible to be seen with sharp eyes! After the tour you will return to the hotel.




